---
layout: post
title: On the stigma of the CS Degree
---

Do Computer Science degrees translate to success?


Everyone has probably heard it at some point in their lives; that the ultimate path to success is through spending time at a college, going through the motions, and getting a degree. It seems to be the big method that is pushed around nowadays, as one can see how the job market is inundated with Computer Science degrees. The main push behind this trend is that the possession of such a degree not only guarantees a job right out of college, but a well-paying one at that. I do not need to have clairvoyance to say I know that there are many others out there who believe this to be the case. I myself am guilty of falling behind such a mentality, but have since grown to realize this is could not be further from the truth.

In my time as a student in a Computer Science program, I have learned to accept the truth of degrees; that they serve little purpose other than fulfilling job requirements. And yet I often see and hear students who are starting their time in a program, with the notion that as soon as they get a degree in one hand, they'll get a job offer in another, with little notion of what happens in between. Several programming classes at my school have become sort of a bottleneck, if you will, of students who make their way through the program. These classes make students realize just how difficult programming can be, and make them hesitant or even drop out. This shouldn't be the point of these classes! The point of these classes should be to show 
